doc/api/file_uploads.md, before:

# Uploading Files

There are two ways to upload a file to Canvas: either by sending the
file data in a POST request, or by sending Canvas a publicly
accessible HTTP or HTTPS URL to the file.

<table id='quicklinks'>
</table>

<h2 class='api_method_name' name='method.file_uploads.post' data-subtopic="Uploading Files">
<a name="method.file_uploads.post" href="#method.file_uploads.post">Uploading via POST</a>
</h2>

There are three steps to uploading a file directly via POST:

1. Notify Canvas that you are uploading a file with a POST to the file
   creation endpoint. This POST will include the file name and file size,
   along with information about what context the file is being created in.
2. Upload the file using the information returned in the first POST request.
3. On successful upload, the API will respond with a redirect. This
   redirect needs to be followed to complete the upload, or the file may not appear.

### Step 1: Telling Canvas about the file upload and getting a token

The first step is to POST to the relevant API endpoint, depending one where
you want to create the file. For example, to <a href="courses.html">add a file to a course</a>, you'd
POST to `/api/v1/courses/:course_id/files`. Or to <a href="submissions.html">upload a file as part of a student homework submission</a>, as the student you'd POST to
`/api/v1/courses/:course_id/assignments/:assignment_id/submissions/self/files`.

Arguments:

<dl>
  <dt>name</dt> <dd>The filename of the file. Any UTF-8 name is allowed. Path components such as `/` and `\` will be treated as part of the filename, not a path to a sub-folder.</dd>
  <dt>size</dt> <dd>The size of the file, in bytes. This field is recommended, as it will let you find out if there's a quota issue before uploading the raw file.</dd>
  <dt>content_type</dt> <dd>The content type of the file. If not given, it will be guessed based on the file extension.</dd>
  <dt>parent_folder_id</dt><dd>The id of the folder to store the file in. If this and parent_folder_path are sent an error will be returned. If neither is given, a default folder will be used.</dd>
  <dt>parent_folder_path</dt> <dd>The path of the folder to store the file in. The path separator is the forward slash `/`, never a back slash. The folder will be created if it does not already exist. This parameter only applies to file uploads in a context that has folders, such as a user, a course, or a group. If this and parent_folder_id are sent an error will be returned. If neither is given, a default folder will be used.</dd>
  <dt>folder</dt> <dd>[deprecated] Use parent_folder_path instead.</dd>
  <dt>on_duplicate</dt> <dd>How to handle duplicate filenames. If `overwrite`, then this file upload will overwrite any other file in the folder with the same name. If `rename`, then this file will be renamed if another file in the folder exists with the given name. If no parameter is given, the default is `overwrite`. This doesn't apply to file uploads in a context that doesn't have folders.</dd>
</dl>

Example Request:

    curl 'https://<canvas>/api/v1/users/self/files' \
         -F 'name=profile_pic.jpg' \
         -F 'size=302185' \
         -F 'content_type=image/jpeg' \
         -F 'parent_folder_path=my_files/section1' \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"

Example Response:

    !!!javascript
    {
      "upload_url": "https://some-bucket.s3.amazonaws.com/",
      "upload_params": {
        "key": "/users/1234/files/profile_pic.jpg",
        "acl": "private",
        "Filename": "profile_pic.jpg",
        "AWSAccessKeyId": "some_id",
        "Policy": "some_opaque_string",
        "Signature": "another_opaque_string",
        "Content-Type": "image/jpeg"
      }
    }

At this point, the file object has been created in Canvas in a "pending"
state, with no content. It will not appear in any listings in the UI until
the next two steps are completed.

### Step 2: Upload the file data to the URL given in the previous response

Using the data in the JSON response from Step 1, the application can now
upload the actual file data, by POSTing a specially formulated request to
the URL given in the `upload_url` field of the response.

Depending on how Canvas is configured, this upload URL might be another URL
in the same domain, or a Amazon S3 bucket, or some other URL.  In order to
work with all Canvas installations, applications should be very careful to
follow this documentation and not make any undocumented assumptions about
the upload workflow.

This second request must be POSTed as a multipart/form-data request to
accomodate the file data. The parameters POSTed with this request come
directly from the `upload_params` part of the JSON response in Step 1.

The only addition is the `file` parameter which *must* be posted as the
last parameter following all the others.

Example Request:

    curl '<upload_url>' \ 
         -F 'key=/users/1234/files/profile_pic.jpg' \ 
         -F 'acl=private' \ 
         -F 'Filename=profile_pic.jpg' \ 
         -F 'AWSAccessKeyId=some_id' \ 
         -F 'Policy=some_opaque_string' \ 
         -F 'Signature=another_opaque_string' \ 
         -F 'Content-Type=image/jpeg' \ 
         -F '<any other fields returned in upload_params>' \
         -F 'file=@my_local_file.jpg'

The access token is not sent with this request.

Example Response:

    HTTP/1.1 301 Moved Permanently
    Location: https://<canvas>/api/v1/s3_success/1234?uuid=ABCDE

IMPORTANT:  The request is signed, and will be denied if any parameters
from the `upload_params` response are added, removed or modified.  The
parameters in `upload_params` may vary over time, and between Canvas
installs. It's important for the application to copy over all of the
parameters, and not rely on the names or values of the params for any
functionality.

This example assumes there is a file called `my_local_file.jpg` in the
current directory.

### Step 3: Confirm the upload's success

If Step 2 is successful, the response will be a 3XX redirect with a
Location header set as normal. The application needs to perform a POST to
this location in order to complete the upload, otherwise the new file may
not be marked as available. This request is back against Canvas again,
and needs to be authenticated using the normal API access token
authentication.

Example Request:

    curl -X POST '<Location>' \
         -H 'Content-Length: 0' \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"

Example Response:

    !!!javascript
    {
      'id': 1234,
      'url': '...url to download the file...',
      'content-type': 'image/jpeg',
      'display_name': 'profile_pic.jpg',
      'size': 302185
    }

<h2 class='api_method_name' name='method.file_uploads.url' data-subtopic="Uploading Files">
<a name="method.file_uploads.url" href="#method.file_uploads.url">Uploading via URL</a>
</h2>

If the file is accessible through a public HTTP or HTTPS URL,
Canvas can download it directly. However, Canvas downloads
the file in the background, so unlike the POST workflow above, the file
won't be immediately available when the API call completes. Applications
can poll the API to check on the status of the upload.

### Step 1: Posting the file URL to Canvas

The first step is the same as with the "Uploading via POST" flow above,
with the addition of one new parameter:

<dl>
  <dt>url</dt>
  <dd>The full URL to the file to be uploaded. This URL must be accessible by Canvas.</dd>
</dl>

Example Request:

    curl 'https://<canvas>/api/v1/users/self/files' \
         -F 'url=http://example.com/my_pic.jpg' \
         -F 'name=profile_pic.jpg' \
         -F 'size=302185' \
         -F 'content_type=image/jpeg' \
         -F 'parent_folder_path=my_files/section1' \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"

Example Response:

    !!!javascript
    {
      'id': 1234,
      'upload_status': 'pending',
      'status_url' '...url to check status...'
    }

Canvas will return a status_url parameter, which is a Canvas
API endpoint that the application can periodically poll to check on the
status of the upload. Note that the id given in the response will be
treated like a deleted file, until the upload completes successfully.

### Step 2: Check the status_url to see when the upload is complete

If the application needs to know the outcome of the upload, it can check
the status_url.

Example Request:

    curl 'https://<canvas>/api/v1/files/1234/5678/status' \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"

When still pending:

    !!!javascript
    {
      'upload_status': 'pending'
    }

When complete:

    !!!javascript
    {
      'upload_status': 'ready',
      // This is the normal attachment JSON response object
      'attachment': {
        'id': 1234,
        'url': '...url to download the file...',
        'content-type': 'image/jpeg',
        'display_name': 'profile_pic.jpg',
        'size': 302185
      }
    }

On error:

    !!!javascript
    {
      'upload_status': 'errored',
      'message': 'Invalid response code, expected 200 got 404'
    }

Commit message:

document the time the signature is good for
test plan
- the time should show up at doc/api/file.file_uploads.html

Change-Id: I54eec0e6276d46a960878563a0505ddba7152251
Reviewed-on: https://gerrit.instructure.com/25616
Tested-by: Jenkins <jenkins@instructure.com>
Reviewed-by: Bracken Mosbacker <bracken@instructure.com>
Product-Review: Bracken Mosbacker <bracken@instructure.com>
QA-Review: Bracken Mosbacker <bracken@instructure.com>

doc/api/file_uploads.md, after:

# Uploading Files

There are two ways to upload a file to Canvas: either by sending the
file data in a POST request, or by sending Canvas a publicly
accessible HTTP or HTTPS URL to the file.

<table id='quicklinks'>
</table>

<h2 class='api_method_name' name='method.file_uploads.post' data-subtopic="Uploading Files">
<a name="method.file_uploads.post" href="#method.file_uploads.post">Uploading via POST</a>
</h2>

There are three steps to uploading a file directly via POST:

1. Notify Canvas that you are uploading a file with a POST to the file
   creation endpoint. This POST will include the file name and file size,
   along with information about what context the file is being created in.
2. Upload the file using the information returned in the first POST request.
3. On successful upload, the API will respond with a redirect. This
   redirect needs to be followed to complete the upload, or the file may not appear.

### Step 1: Telling Canvas about the file upload and getting a token

The first step is to POST to the relevant API endpoint, depending one where
you want to create the file. For example, to <a href="courses.html">add a file to a course</a>, you'd
POST to `/api/v1/courses/:course_id/files`. Or to <a href="submissions.html">upload a file as part of a student homework submission</a>, as the student you'd POST to
`/api/v1/courses/:course_id/assignments/:assignment_id/submissions/self/files`.

Arguments:

<dl>
  <dt>name</dt> <dd>The filename of the file. Any UTF-8 name is allowed. Path components such as `/` and `\` will be treated as part of the filename, not a path to a sub-folder.</dd>
  <dt>size</dt> <dd>The size of the file, in bytes. This field is recommended, as it will let you find out if there's a quota issue before uploading the raw file.</dd>
  <dt>content_type</dt> <dd>The content type of the file. If not given, it will be guessed based on the file extension.</dd>
  <dt>parent_folder_id</dt><dd>The id of the folder to store the file in. If this and parent_folder_path are sent an error will be returned. If neither is given, a default folder will be used.</dd>
  <dt>parent_folder_path</dt> <dd>The path of the folder to store the file in. The path separator is the forward slash `/`, never a back slash. The folder will be created if it does not already exist. This parameter only applies to file uploads in a context that has folders, such as a user, a course, or a group. If this and parent_folder_id are sent an error will be returned. If neither is given, a default folder will be used.</dd>
  <dt>folder</dt> <dd>[deprecated] Use parent_folder_path instead.</dd>
  <dt>on_duplicate</dt> <dd>How to handle duplicate filenames. If `overwrite`, then this file upload will overwrite any other file in the folder with the same name. If `rename`, then this file will be renamed if another file in the folder exists with the given name. If no parameter is given, the default is `overwrite`. This doesn't apply to file uploads in a context that doesn't have folders.</dd>
</dl>

Example Request:

    curl 'https://<canvas>/api/v1/users/self/files' \
         -F 'name=profile_pic.jpg' \
         -F 'size=302185' \
         -F 'content_type=image/jpeg' \
         -F 'parent_folder_path=my_files/section1' \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"

Example Response:

    !!!javascript
    {
      "upload_url": "https://some-bucket.s3.amazonaws.com/",
      "upload_params": {
        "key": "/users/1234/files/profile_pic.jpg",
        "acl": "private",
        "Filename": "profile_pic.jpg",
        "AWSAccessKeyId": "some_id",
        "Policy": "some_opaque_string",
        "Signature": "another_opaque_string",
        "Content-Type": "image/jpeg"
      }
    }

At this point, the file object has been created in Canvas in a "pending"
state, with no content. It will not appear in any listings in the UI until
the next two steps are completed. The returned Signature is valid for 30
minutes.

### Step 2: Upload the file data to the URL given in the previous response

Using the data in the JSON response from Step 1, the application can now
upload the actual file data, by POSTing a specially formulated request to
the URL given in the `upload_url` field of the response.

Depending on how Canvas is configured, this upload URL might be another URL
in the same domain, or a Amazon S3 bucket, or some other URL.  In order to
work with all Canvas installations, applications should be very careful to
follow this documentation and not make any undocumented assumptions about
the upload workflow.

This second request must be POSTed as a multipart/form-data request to
accomodate the file data. The parameters POSTed with this request come
directly from the `upload_params` part of the JSON response in Step 1.

The only addition is the `file` parameter which *must* be posted as the
last parameter following all the others.

Example Request:

    curl '<upload_url>' \ 
         -F 'key=/users/1234/files/profile_pic.jpg' \ 
         -F 'acl=private' \ 
         -F 'Filename=profile_pic.jpg' \ 
         -F 'AWSAccessKeyId=some_id' \ 
         -F 'Policy=some_opaque_string' \ 
         -F 'Signature=another_opaque_string' \ 
         -F 'Content-Type=image/jpeg' \ 
         -F '<any other fields returned in upload_params>' \
         -F 'file=@my_local_file.jpg'

The access token is not sent with this request.

Example Response:

    HTTP/1.1 301 Moved Permanently
    Location: https://<canvas>/api/v1/s3_success/1234?uuid=ABCDE

IMPORTANT:  The request is signed, and will be denied if any parameters
from the `upload_params` response are added, removed or modified.  The
parameters in `upload_params` may vary over time, and between Canvas
installs. It's important for the application to copy over all of the
parameters, and not rely on the names or values of the params for any
functionality.

This example assumes there is a file called `my_local_file.jpg` in the
current directory.

### Step 3: Confirm the upload's success

If Step 2 is successful, the response will be a 3XX redirect with a
Location header set as normal. The application needs to perform a POST to
this location in order to complete the upload, otherwise the new file may
not be marked as available. This request is back against Canvas again,
and needs to be authenticated using the normal API access token
authentication.

Example Request:

    curl -X POST '<Location>' \
         -H 'Content-Length: 0' \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"

Example Response:

    !!!javascript
    {
      'id': 1234,
      'url': '...url to download the file...',
      'content-type': 'image/jpeg',
      'display_name': 'profile_pic.jpg',
      'size': 302185
    }

<h2 class='api_method_name' name='method.file_uploads.url' data-subtopic="Uploading Files">
<a name="method.file_uploads.url" href="#method.file_uploads.url">Uploading via URL</a>
</h2>

If the file is accessible through a public HTTP or HTTPS URL,
Canvas can download it directly. However, Canvas downloads
the file in the background, so unlike the POST workflow above, the file
won't be immediately available when the API call completes. Applications
can poll the API to check on the status of the upload.

### Step 1: Posting the file URL to Canvas

The first step is the same as with the "Uploading via POST" flow above,
with the addition of one new parameter:

<dl>
  <dt>url</dt>
  <dd>The full URL to the file to be uploaded. This URL must be accessible by Canvas.</dd>
</dl>

Example Request:

    curl 'https://<canvas>/api/v1/users/self/files' \
         -F 'url=http://example.com/my_pic.jpg' \
         -F 'name=profile_pic.jpg' \
         -F 'size=302185' \
         -F 'content_type=image/jpeg' \
         -F 'parent_folder_path=my_files/section1' \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"

Example Response:

    !!!javascript
    {
      'id': 1234,
      'upload_status': 'pending',
      'status_url' '...url to check status...'
    }

Canvas will return a status_url parameter, which is a Canvas
API endpoint that the application can periodically poll to check on the
status of the upload. Note that the id given in the response will be
treated like a deleted file, until the upload completes successfully.

### Step 2: Check the status_url to see when the upload is complete

If the application needs to know the outcome of the upload, it can check
the status_url.

Example Request:

    curl 'https://<canvas>/api/v1/files/1234/5678/status' \
         -H "Authorization: Bearer <token>"

When still pending:

    !!!javascript
    {
      'upload_status': 'pending'
    }

When complete:

    !!!javascript
    {
      'upload_status': 'ready',
      // This is the normal attachment JSON response object
      'attachment': {
        'id': 1234,
        'url': '...url to download the file...',
        'content-type': 'image/jpeg',
        'display_name': 'profile_pic.jpg',
        'size': 302185
      }
    }

On error:

    !!!javascript
    {
      'upload_status': 'errored',
      'message': 'Invalid response code, expected 200 got 404'
    }
